README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<img src="documentation/images/logo_new.png" alt="logo"/>
<h3>Kafbat UI</h3>

Versatile, fast and lightweight web UI for managing Apache Kafka® clusters.
</div>

<div align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/kafbat/kafka-ui/blob/main/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg" alt="License"/></a>
<img src="documentation/images/free-open-source.svg" alt="price free"/>
<a href="https://github.com/kafbat/kafka-ui/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/kafbat/kafka-ui" alt="latest release version"/></a>
<a href="https://discord.gg/4DWzD7pGE5"><img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/897805035122077716" alt="discord online number count"/></a>
<a href="https://github.com/sponsors/kafbat"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/kafbat?style=flat&logo=githubsponsors&logoColor=%23EA4AAA&label=Support%20us" alt="" /></a>
</div>

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/">Documentation</a> • 
    <a href="https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/quick-start/demo-run">Quick Start</a> • 
    <a href="https://discord.gg/4DWzD7pGE5">Community</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-6tdqqzzjwmejq">AWS Marketplace</a>  •
    <a href="https://www.producthunt.com/products/ui-for-apache-kafka/reviews/new">ProductHunt</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://repobeats.axiom.co/api/embed/88d2bd9887380c7d86e2f986725d9af52ebad7f4.svg" alt="stats"/>
</p>

#### Kafbat UI is a free, open-source web UI to monitor and manage Apache Kafka clusters.

[Kafbat UI](https://kafbat.io/) is a simple tool that makes your data flows observable, helps find and troubleshoot issues faster and deliver optimal performance. Its lightweight dashboard makes it easy to track key metrics of your Kafka clusters - Brokers, Topics, Partitions, Production, and Consumption.

<i>
Kafbat UI, developed by <b>Kafbat</b>*, proudly carries forward the legacy of the UI Apache Kafka project.
Our dedication is reflected in the continuous evolution of the project, ensuring adherence to its foundational vision while adapting to meet modern demands.
We extend our gratitude to Provectus for their past support in groundbreaking work, which serves as a cornerstone for our ongoing innovation and dedication.

<b>*</b> - The <b>Kafbat</b> team comprises key contributors from the project's inception, bringing a wealth of experience and insight to this renewed endeavor.
</i>

# Interface

![Interface](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kafbat/kafka-ui/images/overview.gif)

# Features

* **Topic Insights** – View essential topic details including partition count, replication status, and custom configurations.
* **Configuration Wizard** – Set up and configure your Kafka clusters directly through the UI.
* **Multi-Cluster Management** – Monitor and manage all your Kafka clusters in one unified interface.
* **Metrics Dashboard** – Track key Kafka metrics in real time with a streamlined, lightweight dashboard.
* **Kafka Brokers Overview** – Inspect brokers, including partition assignments and controller status.
* **Consumer Group Details** – Analyze parked offsets per partition, and monitor both combined and partition-specific lag.
* **Message Browser** – Explore messages in JSON, plain text, or Avro encoding formats. Live view is supported, enriched with user-defined CEL message filters.
* **Dynamic Topic Management** – Create and configure new topics with flexible, real-time settings.
* **Pluggable Authentication** – Secure your UI using OAuth 2.0 (GitHub, GitLab, Google), LDAP, or basic authentication.
* **Cloud IAM Support** – Integrate with **GCP IAM**, **Azure IAM**, and **AWS IAM** for cloud-native identity and access management.
* **Managed Kafka Service Support** – Full support for **Azure EventHub**, **Google Cloud Managed Service for Apache Kafka**, and **AWS Managed Streaming for Apache Kafka (MSK)**—both server-based and serverless.
* **Custom SerDe Plugin Support** – Use built-in serializers/deserializers like AWS Glue and Smile, or create your own custom plugins.
* **Role-Based Access Control** – [Manage granular UI permissions](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/rbac-role-based-access-control) with RBAC.
* **Data Masking** – [Obfuscate sensitive data](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/data-masking) in topic messages to enhance privacy and compliance.
* **MCP Server** - [Model Context Protocol](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/faq/mcp) Server


## Feature overview

<details>
    <summary>Click here for the feature overview</summary>

## Topics
Kafbat UI makes it easy for you to create topics in your browser with just a few clicks, by pasting your own parameters, and viewing topics in the list.

![Create Topic](documentation/images/Create_topic_kafka-ui.gif)

You can jump from the connectors view to corresponding topics and from a topic to consumers (back and forth) for more convenient navigation, including connectors and overview topic settings.

![Connector_Topic_Consumer](documentation/images/Connector_Topic_Consumer.gif)

### Messages
Suppose you want to produce messages for your topic. With Kafbat UI, you can easily send or write data/messages to Kafka topics by specifying parameters and viewing messages in the list.

![Produce Message](documentation/images/Create_message_kafka-ui.gif)

## Schema registry
There are three supported types of schemas: Avro®, JSON Schema, and Protobuf schemas.

![Create Schema Registry](documentation/images/Create_schema.gif)

Before producing Avro/Protobuf encoded messages, you need to add a schema for the topic in the Schema Registry. All these steps are now easy to do with just a few clicks in a user-friendly interface.

![Avro Schema Topic](documentation/images/Schema_Topic.gif)

</details>

# Getting Started

To run Kafbat UI, you can use either a pre-built Docker image or build it (or a jar file) yourself.

## Quick start (Demo run)

```bash
docker run -it -p 8080:8080 -e DYNAMIC_CONFIG_ENABLED=true ghcr.io/kafbat/kafka-ui
```

Then access the web UI at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080)

This command is sufficient to try things out. When you're done, you can proceed with a [persistent installation](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/quick-start/persistent-start).

## Persistent installation

```yml
services:
  kafbat-ui:
    container_name: kafbat-ui
    image: ghcr.io/kafbat/kafka-ui:latest
    ports:
      - 8080:8080
    environment:
      DYNAMIC_CONFIG_ENABLED: 'true'
    volumes:
      - ~/kui/config.yml:/etc/kafkaui/dynamic_config.yaml
```

Please refer to our [configuration](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/configuration-file) page to proceed with further app configuration.

## Some useful configuration related links

[Web UI Cluster Configuration Wizard](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/configuration-wizard)

[Configuration file explanation](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/configuration-file)

[Docker Compose examples](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/compose-examples)

[Misc configuration properties](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/misc-configuration-properties)

## Helm charts

[Quick start](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/helm-charts/quick-start)

## Building from sources

[Quick start](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/development/building/prerequisites) for building from source

## Liveliness and readiness probes
The liveness and readiness endpoint is at `/actuator/health`.<br/>
The info endpoint (build info) is located at `/actuator/info`.

# Configuration options

All environment variables and configuration properties can be found [here](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/misc-configuration-properties).

# Contributing

Please refer to the [contributing guide](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/development/contributing); we'll guide you from there.

# Support

As we're fully independent, team members contribute in their free time.
Your support is crucial for us, if you wish to sponsor us, take a look [here](https://github.com/sponsors/kafbat)

# Powered by

[![JetBrains logo.](https://resources.jetbrains.com/storage/products/company/brand/logos/jetbrains.svg)](https://jb.gg/OpenSourceSupport)

Commit message:

BE: Integrate Swagger UI for API documentation #631 (#1607)

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<img src="documentation/images/logo_new.png" alt="logo"/>
<h3>Kafbat UI</h3>

Versatile, fast and lightweight web UI for managing Apache Kafka® clusters.
</div>

<div align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/kafbat/kafka-ui/blob/main/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg" alt="License"/></a>
<img src="documentation/images/free-open-source.svg" alt="price free"/>
<a href="https://github.com/kafbat/kafka-ui/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/kafbat/kafka-ui" alt="latest release version"/></a>
<a href="https://discord.gg/4DWzD7pGE5"><img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/897805035122077716" alt="discord online number count"/></a>
<a href="https://github.com/sponsors/kafbat"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/kafbat?style=flat&logo=githubsponsors&logoColor=%23EA4AAA&label=Support%20us" alt="" /></a>
</div>

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/">Documentation</a> • 
    <a href="https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/quick-start/demo-run">Quick Start</a> • 
    <a href="https://discord.gg/4DWzD7pGE5">Community</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-6tdqqzzjwmejq">AWS Marketplace</a>  •
    <a href="https://www.producthunt.com/products/ui-for-apache-kafka/reviews/new">ProductHunt</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://repobeats.axiom.co/api/embed/88d2bd9887380c7d86e2f986725d9af52ebad7f4.svg" alt="stats"/>
</p>

#### Kafbat UI is a free, open-source web UI to monitor and manage Apache Kafka clusters.

[Kafbat UI](https://kafbat.io/) is a simple tool that makes your data flows observable, helps find and troubleshoot issues faster and deliver optimal performance. Its lightweight dashboard makes it easy to track key metrics of your Kafka clusters - Brokers, Topics, Partitions, Production, and Consumption.

<i>
Kafbat UI, developed by <b>Kafbat</b>*, proudly carries forward the legacy of the UI Apache Kafka project.
Our dedication is reflected in the continuous evolution of the project, ensuring adherence to its foundational vision while adapting to meet modern demands.
We extend our gratitude to Provectus for their past support in groundbreaking work, which serves as a cornerstone for our ongoing innovation and dedication.

<b>*</b> - The <b>Kafbat</b> team comprises key contributors from the project's inception, bringing a wealth of experience and insight to this renewed endeavor.
</i>

# Interface

![Interface](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kafbat/kafka-ui/images/overview.gif)

# Features

* **Topic Insights** – View essential topic details including partition count, replication status, and custom configurations.
* **Configuration Wizard** – Set up and configure your Kafka clusters directly through the UI.
* **Multi-Cluster Management** – Monitor and manage all your Kafka clusters in one unified interface.
* **Metrics Dashboard** – Track key Kafka metrics in real time with a streamlined, lightweight dashboard.
* **Kafka Brokers Overview** – Inspect brokers, including partition assignments and controller status.
* **Consumer Group Details** – Analyze parked offsets per partition, and monitor both combined and partition-specific lag.
* **Message Browser** – Explore messages in JSON, plain text, or Avro encoding formats. Live view is supported, enriched with user-defined CEL message filters.
* **Dynamic Topic Management** – Create and configure new topics with flexible, real-time settings.
* **Pluggable Authentication** – Secure your UI using OAuth 2.0 (GitHub, GitLab, Google), LDAP, or basic authentication.
* **Cloud IAM Support** – Integrate with **GCP IAM**, **Azure IAM**, and **AWS IAM** for cloud-native identity and access management.
* **Managed Kafka Service Support** – Full support for **Azure EventHub**, **Google Cloud Managed Service for Apache Kafka**, and **AWS Managed Streaming for Apache Kafka (MSK)**—both server-based and serverless.
* **Custom SerDe Plugin Support** – Use built-in serializers/deserializers like AWS Glue and Smile, or create your own custom plugins.
* **Role-Based Access Control** – [Manage granular UI permissions](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/rbac-role-based-access-control) with RBAC.
* **Data Masking** – [Obfuscate sensitive data](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/data-masking) in topic messages to enhance privacy and compliance.
* **API Documentation (Swagger UI)** - Access full API specifications via built-in Swagger UI (can be enabled via `SWAGGER_UI_ENABLED` variable).
* **MCP Server** - [Model Context Protocol](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/faq/mcp) Server


## Feature overview

<details>
    <summary>Click here for the feature overview</summary>

## Topics
Kafbat UI makes it easy for you to create topics in your browser with just a few clicks, by pasting your own parameters, and viewing topics in the list.

![Create Topic](documentation/images/Create_topic_kafka-ui.gif)

You can jump from the connectors view to corresponding topics and from a topic to consumers (back and forth) for more convenient navigation, including connectors and overview topic settings.

![Connector_Topic_Consumer](documentation/images/Connector_Topic_Consumer.gif)

### Messages
Suppose you want to produce messages for your topic. With Kafbat UI, you can easily send or write data/messages to Kafka topics by specifying parameters and viewing messages in the list.

![Produce Message](documentation/images/Create_message_kafka-ui.gif)

## Schema registry
There are three supported types of schemas: Avro®, JSON Schema, and Protobuf schemas.

![Create Schema Registry](documentation/images/Create_schema.gif)

Before producing Avro/Protobuf encoded messages, you need to add a schema for the topic in the Schema Registry. All these steps are now easy to do with just a few clicks in a user-friendly interface.

![Avro Schema Topic](documentation/images/Schema_Topic.gif)

</details>

# Getting Started

To run Kafbat UI, you can use either a pre-built Docker image or build it (or a jar file) yourself.

## Quick start (Demo run)

```bash
docker run -it -p 8080:8080 -e DYNAMIC_CONFIG_ENABLED=true -e SWAGGER_UI_ENABLED=true ghcr.io/kafbat/kafka-ui
```

Then access the web UI at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080)

This command is sufficient to try things out. When you're done, you can proceed with a [persistent installation](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/quick-start/persistent-start).

## Persistent installation

```yml
services:
  kafbat-ui:
    container_name: kafbat-ui
    image: ghcr.io/kafbat/kafka-ui:latest
    ports:
      - 8080:8080
    environment:
      DYNAMIC_CONFIG_ENABLED: 'true'
      SWAGGER_UI_ENABLED: 'true'
    volumes:
      - ~/kui/config.yml:/etc/kafkaui/dynamic_config.yaml
```

Please refer to our [configuration](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/configuration-file) page to proceed with further app configuration.

## Some useful configuration related links

[Web UI Cluster Configuration Wizard](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/configuration-wizard)

[Configuration file explanation](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/configuration-file)

[Docker Compose examples](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/compose-examples)

[Misc configuration properties](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/misc-configuration-properties)

## Helm charts

[Quick start](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/helm-charts/quick-start)

## Building from sources

[Quick start](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/development/building/prerequisites) for building from source

## Liveliness and readiness probes
The liveness and readiness endpoint is at `/actuator/health`.<br/>
The info endpoint (build info) is located at `/actuator/info`.

# Configuration options

All environment variables and configuration properties can be found [here](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/configuration/misc-configuration-properties).

# Contributing

Please refer to the [contributing guide](https://ui.docs.kafbat.io/development/contributing); we'll guide you from there.

# Support

As we're fully independent, team members contribute in their free time.
Your support is crucial for us, if you wish to sponsor us, take a look [here](https://github.com/sponsors/kafbat)

# Powered by

[![JetBrains logo.](https://resources.jetbrains.com/storage/products/company/brand/logos/jetbrains.svg)](https://jb.gg/OpenSourceSupport)
